Once your Compose projects get bigger, and you might even
be considering microservices,
you're going to end up with a lot of services.
That sort of magnifies a lot of the problems that you
traditionally would have with just a bunch of things
running that you're trying to all get working together for
development. There's lots of little issues
that have their own workarounds or ways to
go about solving them.
They may or may not be Compose specific, but I just want to
throw those in here so that you have the tools you need
to go check this stuff out when you need it.
You may not have all these problems today, but I wanted to
give you some resources to jump off with them and then show
you a quick example of using a local proxy.
One of the challenges of microservices is that assuming
you're using API or HTTP based endpoints,
is you end up with a lot of them.
So, you need to be able to manage those locally.
If you're just using Compose by default, Docker is
going to want to have a published port for every one of
these containers, which means you end up with a whole bunch
of ports that you have to manage across all the different
microservices you might have.
That's fine at first, but you may want a more optimized
design where you're using DNS names to access various
things, various microservices, instead of ports
for each one.
That's where a proxy will come into play.
That's really, I think nowadays, a
very standard part of your local Docker Compose
setup is putting in a container that's using a
reverse proxy to make it easier for all your
various endpoints, and parts of your app, to run behind
that. Then you can use nice things like friendly DNS names.
You don't have to have a bunch of random ports open.
It just scales better, I think, as you grow.
Standard options here are Nginx, HAProxy and Traefik.
In a minute, I'll show you a demo of using Nginx or
Traefik, two of, I think, the most popular choices for
doing this. It's really not that much work to set up.
Another problem is if you have CORS failures in local
development. That's cross origin issues where you
maybe have an app that's locked down a little bit to where
it can be accessed from, and another one of your
container's is failing at accessing it locally basically
because you've got the wrong setting setup there.
Instead of trying to go customize your app, you can
use a proxy for this as well.
I put some links in the resources for this lecture
that if you're into a CORS issue, just go check that stuff
out. If you don't have to worry about CORS yet, then don't
bother because it's a very specific problem, with a very
specific way of going about solving it.
If you're interested at all in developing locally with
HTTPS, that's also it's own set of problems
on how you go about getting certificates, and how do you
get easy trust in your browsers.
I've put a great resource link in
this lecture's resources to Let's Encrypt.
Let's Encrypt itself is not really ideal
for local development. It is really designed as a
production tool. But, this article that I'd like you to
read from Let's Encrypt, and if you're not aware of them
they're the big open source project that allows you
to get free real certificates for real websites.
They're fantastic. You should definitely look at it.
But, that is not really a tool for local
development with SSL or TLS certs.
They have a great article talking about the problems of it
and the best solution, which I adopt as well.
In that case, essentially the solution is creating
your own localhost certificates, on your local machine, and
then just connecting those into your proxy.
Before I get to a quick demo on this, one of the last
problems is just how to deal with DNS names locally.
Of course, if you're on a Mac or Linux machine, or on
Docker Desktop for Windows 10, you get to use localhost
if you're using that setup, and they sort of hide
the fact that Docker is running in the background.
That's great. If you're on another setup like Docker
Toolbox, or a remote server, or just simply your
own custom VM, you have to use an IP address for that
machine, probably if it's locally running in VirtualBox or
something. So, you might wonder what your options are
for DNS names locally.
Well, the first that I'm going to suggest here is
really the easiest because Chrome itself, out-of-the-box,
the Chrome browser, allows you to use something.localhost
for any name, for some website you have locally.
And that's great. Honestly, if you can get away with doing
that, and if you're only developing for stuff that's web
based in Chrome, and you're not using command line tools or
other browsers, then great.
You can get away with that.
But, it doesn't scale to other tools and other problem
areas. So, it's really just a Chrome-specific feature.
I tried it in Safari. I haven't tried it in every browser,
and I don't know if it works everywhere.
But, Chrome does support it. So, essentially you get that
out-of-the-box. You don't have to set up anything custom
for that to work. That would allow you to have website
a.localhost, website b.localhost,
and those would work in Chrome and automatically go to your
localhost IP address.
Then you could have a proxy running there, which I'll show
you in a minute, on routing those connections to
wherever they need go in your containers.
The next option here, which I've used in the past, is to
use a wildcard domain.
The jury is a little bit undecided on the security
risk with this and what you need to worry about in terms of
maybe someone that's hosting a domain name that you have
redirecting locally.
I feel like it's safe, especially if you're using
names that you can trust.
I use the vcap.me, which is owned by VMware.
It's a part of their VMware platform, so it's been around
for a probably a decade I think at this point.
It's pretty standard.
It's trusted, at least, that they're not going to go and
randomly cause that name to be redirected to other
websites.
You can also look at xip.io.
That's a slightly different solution where it allows you to
have a DNS name for each IP address
of any private subnet.
It's pretty interesting in case you have local servers.
These two solutions are just like the first one, really
about you using DNS names to access a bunch
of different local containers all running
on your localhost without having to edit your host file.
The last little option here is dnsmasq, which you will see
if you go searching around for this problem, you'll see
people suggesting dnsmasq.
That's an interesting little mini DNS server
that sits on either Mac or Linux.
It doesn't, at this point, run on Windows.
But on Mac and Linux, it will sit there and you can
customize it for any domains you want.
Like something.bret, or something.docker.
You could have that going to a local machine or really
wherever you want. This little thing then does
the DNS request and answers them for that, and then it
spins off the rest of them to whatever your normal DNS host
is. It's a little bit more of a setup process that
typically runs on the host.
So, you would have to set up some things.
It doesn't solve every problem.
So, I typically only use that when I absolutely have to.
Then, of course, your last resort is using the host file.
You might ask, well, that seems like the easiest choice.
Why don't I just do that?
Well, a couple of reasons. One, you have to have local
admin, and you have to be willing to go in and edit that
host file. It doesn't work with wildcard.
So, that means for every name, for every microservice that
you would want to have it's own DNS name, you'd have to add
a separate thing into the host file, and that just becomes
very tedious.
People have created scripts and tools over time to manually
edit your localhost file to do all of this, but it's still
not within the Docker workflow.
It's not something that can be automated with Docker
Compose. It just adds extra work, and it tends
to be my last option or preference.
If you go looking in the repo for sample
local proxy, you'll see two Compose examples
that are pretty simple that I just want to run you through
real quick, so you can play with those and see if they'll
work in your workflow.
They're designed so you can copy out the proxy
config for the service that will run a local proxy, and
then just paste that into your existing Docker Compose
files, and then start configuring your services so that
they'll all work behind this single proxy.
This by no way is a production-like
setup. These aren't designed for production the way that
I've configured them.
This is simply for local setups so that you can have a
single endpoint, maybe running on port 80, or whatever you
want. Then have a whole bunch different containers
running websites behind them on different names.
The first one here Nginx-proxy YAML
is using an Nginx variant and a couple
of tools built into a single container by a community
leader, jwilder, who has been around the Docker scene for
quite some time. This is probably the most popular local
proxy setup around, and it just works.
It has lots and lots of info on his GitHub
page. You can definitely go check all that out.
It hasn't changed a whole lot since he created
it around 2014, which at this point, was a long time
ago. You can see I've added a single service
here, Nginx proxy, and then it's sitting in front
of my services. So, let's say I have an app that's running
Nginx on one server, and then a ghost
Node.js server running on another container.
These are separate apps. If I didn't have the Nginx proxy
sitting in front of them, they'd have to be published on
their own ports. But, in this case, the proxy
sits in front of them. It's listening on my local port 80,
and it's mounted to my Docker socket.
So, it's reading information coming out of the Docker
Engine. Then it's able to
respond to anything coming at it at port 80
based on the DNS names, or the virtual hosts,
that I give each one of my apps.
So, if you had 20 different microservices, you would simply
add an environment variable for each that would be the name
that you'd want to use from your local browser,
or from cURL, or whatever you are using on your local
machine, to get into those apps, right.
If I spin this up, you would see that I would just be able
to go to either the dude.localhost or the
ghost.localhost, and I would see those
websites because the Nginx proxy is redirecting
the traffic, or reverse proxying it, from
that port that it's listening on.
This does support a lot of other things, like wildcards
and SSL, and you name it, there's a bunch of stuff in it,
and it's all on his GitHub repo that you can see
in the resources for this lecture.
The other way I'm going to show you here is with
Traefik.Traefik is a proxy that's exclusive
to just doing reverse proxy.
It's only goal in life is to be the best
container-based dynamic distributed computing
type of proxy.
It's got a lot of really interesting features because it
was based and born in the cloud world.
It was designed for containers and cloud native stuff.
So, it's got some really easy ways to get around using it.
You can see here that the setup is a little bit different,
but its purpose is the same.
You have the image that I've specified here.
I'm using the Docker volume to mount the sockets so it
can read information coming out of your Docker Engine.
I have it listening on port 80.
Then I basically am setting it up to know that it needs to
work with Docker.
Then it has its own web-based interface where you can
actually see stuff about what's going on, and that's pretty
cool because I can give it a name.
You'll see, in this example, that I'm giving it these
labels. The labels, rather than environment variables with
the Nginx one, the labels are how you tell this to work.
So, it's using container labels.
In this case, I'm telling it traefik.localhost.
That's what will work in Chrome.
But, if I don't have Chrome, or I can't use Chrome, or I
need to use something more suitable in my situation, then
I'm using the vcap wildcard domain from VMware
that I mentioned earlier, so I could also use this name,
which would redirect locally to my machine and bring up
that monitoring website.
The other things for my Nginx and my ghosts are very
similar to before.
You can see my two services that are sitting behind it.
The Nginx example, and the ghost example, and I've
got both names in there in case I want to use the localhost
in Chrome. Or, if I want to use the vcap me.
The comma there allows me to put multiple host names.
I'm sure that the Nginx proxy example has that feature as
well. I'm just showing you different ways of doing it.
Both of these work out-of-the-box.
You can cut and paste them, and play with them in your own
apps. If you're using more than two or three
websites, and you're growing, especially if you're building
microservices and you know you're going to keep adding new
API endpoints and stuff like that in different containers,
you're definitely going to have to build one of these two
types of solutions into your Compose files
so that you'll at least have a sane way of managing it all
on your local machine.